OSDOCS-10782: Update ROSA with HCP activation and account linking tutorial (#77524)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-rosa-hcp-activation-and-account-linking-tutorial.adoc

== Prerequisites

* Make sure to log in to the Red{nbsp}Hat account that you plan to associate with the AWS account where you have activated {hcp-title} in previous steps.

> * The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as developer accounts, would be the one that is to be billed, rather than individual AWS end user accounts. In such cases, the main AWS account would be the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.

Author: Updated.

* All team members belonging to the same Red{nbsp}Hat organization are able to use the linked AWS account for service billing while creating ROSA with HCP clusters.

== Subscription enablement and AWS account setup

> . Activate the {hcp-title} product at the link:https://console.aws.amazon.com/rosa/home[AWS console page] by clicking the *Get started* button:

Reviewer: I know in the other tutorial we reference images by Figure 1, Figure 2, etc.. Do we want to do it here? I am not sure what is typical to docs but thought it might be helpful for people using screenreaders

Author: Added!

== Prerequisites

* Make sure to log in to the Red{nbsp}Hat account that you plan to associate with the AWS account where you have activated {hcp-title} in previous steps.

> * The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as a developer account, rather than individual AWS user accounts is the AWS account used for service billing. The main AWS account is the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.

Reviewer 2: The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically an AWS payer account is the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.

> * The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as developer accounts, would be the one that is to be billed, rather than individual AWS user accounts. In such cases, the main AWS account would be the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as a developer account, rather than individual AWS user accounts is the AWS account used for service billing. The main AWS account is the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.
```

> * All team members belonging to the same Red{nbsp}Hat organization are able to use the linked AWS account for service billing while creating ROSA with HCP clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* All team members belonging to the same Red{nbsp}Hat organization can use the linked AWS account for service billing while creating ROSA with HCP clusters.
```

. Click the orange *Continue to Red{nbsp}Hat* button to proceed with account linking:
+
.Continue to Red{nbsp}Hat
+
image::rosa-continue-rh-6.png[]

. If you are not already logged in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account in your current browser's session, you will be asked to log in to your account:
+
[NOTE]
====

> Your AWS account must linked to a single Red{nbsp}Hat organization. 

Reviewer 2: Your AWS account must be linked to a Red{nbsp}Hat account before you can create a ROSA cluster.

====
+
.Log in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account
+
image::rosa-login-rh-account-7.png[]
+
* You can also register for a new Red{nbsp}Hat account or reset your password on this page.
* Make sure to log in to the Red{nbsp}Hat account that you plan to associate with the AWS account where you have activated {hcp-title} in previous steps.

> * The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as a developer account, rather than individual AWS user accounts is the AWS account used for service billing.

Reviewer 2: The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically an AWS payer account is the one that is used to subscribe to ROSA and used for account linking and billing.

> * An AWS account that is used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically an organizational AWS account that has other AWS accounts, such as developer accounts, linked would be the one that is to be billed, rather than individual AWS user accounts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The AWS account used for service billing can only be associated with a single Red{nbsp}Hat account. Typically a main AWS account that has other AWS linked accounts, such as a developer account, rather than individual AWS user accounts is the AWS account used for service billing.
```

> * Red{nbsp}Hat accounts belonging to the same Red{nbsp}Hat organization are linked with the same AWS account. Therefore, you can manage who has access to creating {hcp-title} clusters on the Red{nbsp}Hat organization account level.

Reviewer 2: All team members belonging to the same Red{nbsp}Hat organization can use the linked AWS account for service billing while creating ROSA with HCP clusters.

. Complete the Red{nbsp}Hat account linking after reviewing the terms and conditions:
+
[NOTE]
====

> This step is available only if the logged-in Red{nbsp}Hat account, or the Red{nbsp}Hat organization managing the Red{nbsp}Hat account, was not linked to an AWS account before.

Reviewer 2: This step is available only if the AWS account was not linked to any Red{nbsp}Hat account before.

> This step can be skipped if the AWS account is already linked to the same Red{nbsp}Hat account.

Reviewer 2: This step is skipped if the AWS account is already linked to the user's logged in Red{nbsp}Hat account.

> If the AWS account is linked to a different Red{nbsp}Hat account, an error will be displayed. See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/7066995[Correcting Billing Account Information for HCP clusters] for resolution steps and related considerations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the AWS account is linked to a different Red{nbsp}Hat account, an error will be displayed. See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/7066995[Correcting Billing Account Information for HCP clusters] for troubleshooting.
```

+
If this is the first time you are using the {hybrid-console}, you will be asked to agree with the general managed services terms and conditions before being able to create the first ROSA cluster:
+
.Terms and conditions
+
image::rosa-terms-conditions-9.png[]
+
Additional terms that need to be reviewed and accepted are shown after clicking the *View Terms and Conditions* button:
+
.Red{nbsp}Hat terms and conditions
+
image::rosa-terms-conditions-9-5.png[]
+
Submit your agreement once you have reviewed any additional terms when prompted at this time.

> . The {hybrid-console-second} provides a confirmation that AWS prerequisites were completed and lists the first steps needed for cluster deployment:

Reviewer 2: . The {hybrid-console-second} provides a confirmation that AWS account setup was completed and lists the prerequisites for cluster deployment:

+

> .Set up Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA)

Reviewer 2: .Complete ROSA prerequisites

Use ^^ as the screenshot title

+
image::rosa-cluster-create-10.png[]

> . The following steps pertain to technical deployment of the cluster:

Reviewer 2: Remove this bullet point

+

> .Complete ROSA prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Remove this

+

> image::rosa-deploy-11.png[]

Reviewer 2: Remove this screenshot

+
image::rosa-create-cli-billing-17.png[]
+
* Only AWS accounts that were linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently used are shown.
* The specified AWS billing account is charged the ROSA service fee. Cloud resources, such as the EC2 instance costs, are billed to the AWS infrastructure account where the resources are deployed. Depending on your AWS organization structure, different AWS organization accounts might be responsible for the ROSA service fee and for the AWS infrastructure fees.
* AWS accounts without the _Contract enabled_ label are charged the applicable on-demand consumption rates.

> * To select an AWS account that does not have the contract enabled, refer to the first few steps in this tutorial to enable the contract and allow the service charging, which is required for a successful cluster deployment.

Reviewer 4: This bullet point is incorrect and needs to be completely removed (users can select billing accounts with or without the "contract enabled" label, the difference is only that the ones with "contract enabled" consume the previously purchased quota first, before being charged the on-demand service fees).

. After logging in, creating the account roles, and verifying your identity using the `rosa whoami` command, your terminal will look similar to this:
+

> .Run `rosa whoami` command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Run the `rosa whoami` command
```

+
image::rosa-whoami-14.png[]

. Initiate the cluster deployment using the presented command. You can click the *copy* button again and paste the command in your terminal:
+
.Deploy the cluster and set up access
+
image::rosa-cli-15.png[]

. To use a custom AWS profile, one of the non-default profiles specified in your `~/.aws/credentials`, you can add the `–profile <profile_name>` selector to the rosa create cluster command so that the command looks like rosa create cluster `–profile stage`. If no AWS CLI profile is specified using this option, the default AWS CLI profile will determine the AWS infrastructure profile into which the cluster is deployed. The billing AWS profile is selected in one of the following steps.

. After entering a cluster name, you will be asked whether to use the hosted control plane. Select *yes*:
//At the time of creating this tutorial, the `rosa` CLI defaults to the “classic” control plane.
+

> .Deploy cluster with Hosted Control Plane

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Deploy the cluster with hosted control plane
```

+
image::rosa-create-cli-16.png[]

. When deploying a {hcp-title} cluster, the billing AWS account needs to be specified:
+

> .Specify Billing Account

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Specify the billing account
```

+
image::rosa-create-cli-billing-17.png[]
+

> * Only AWS accounts that were linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently used are shown.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Only AWS accounts that are linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently being used are shown.
```

* The specified AWS account is charged for using the ROSA service, regardless of whether the infrastructure AWS account is linked to it in the same AWS organization.

> * You can see an indicator whether the ROSA contract is enabled for a given AWS billing account or not.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* An indicator shows if the ROSA contract is enabled or not enabled for a given AWS billing account.
```

+
image::rosa-ui-billing-22.png[]
+
* Only AWS accounts that were linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently used will be shown.
* The specified AWS account will be charged for using the ROSA service, regardless of whether the infrastructure AWS account is linked to it in the same AWS organization.
* Only AWS accounts that were linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently used are shown.
* The specified AWS account is charged for using the ROSA service, regardless of whether the infrastructure AWS account is linked to it in the same AWS organization.
* You can see an indicator whether the ROSA contract is enabled for a given AWS billing account or not.

> * In case you would like to use an AWS account that does not have a contract enabled yet, you can either use the _Connect ROSA to a new AWS billing account_ to reach the ROSA AWS console page, where you can activate it after logging in using the respective AWS account by following steps described earlier in this tutorial, or ask the administrator of the AWS account to do that for you.

Reviewer 4: I would add two more bullet points at the end of the list that further clarifies the "Contract enabled" label:
* AWS accounts without the _Contract enabled_ label are charged the applicable on-demand consumption rates.
* If you select an AWS billing account that shows the _Contract enabled_ label, on-demand consumption rates are charged only after the contracted quota is consumed.

. A cluster can be created using the web console by selecting the second option in the bottom section of the introductory *Set up ROSA* page:
+
.Deploy with web interface
+
image::rosa-deploy-ui-19.png[]

. The first step when creating a ROSA cluster using the web console is the control plane selection. Make sure the *Hosted* option is selected before clicking the *Next* button:
+

> .Select Hosted option

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Select hosted option
```

. The billing AWS account is selected in the immediately following section:
+
.AWS billing account
+
image::rosa-ui-billing-22.png[]
+

> * Only AWS accounts that were linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently used are shown.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Only AWS accounts that are linked to the Red{nbsp}Hat organization that is currently being used are shown.
```
